In practice, what we are practicing? In practice, as in English history, practice makes perfect,
perfect.
By this method, it is going to perform the perfect practice, perfectness, perfectness in the
richness of the natures.
Both external, internal, and that is also external, means this universal world.
Internal means our physicals too, and then our mind is all going to pray, that richness, splendid
qualities,
the beauty that he held, that complete, and that in this "sadhana" is what?
"Sadhana" is come from where?
It condenses the instructions of the tantras. That's true. "Dhantara" is sadhana that comes from
already.
"Dhantara." And what means the meaning of "dhantara"? Again, the word meaning of "dhantara."
What? "Continue." "Dhantara." What? What? Like a weaving. We, we, we, who, who is that? That's it.
And then anything?
"Threat." "Threat" is true. That's really woven. "Threat." Those also, this is the meaning of "dh
antras."
"Dhantras," and then also the meaning of "dhantra," means always it.
"Dhantra" has the word meaning of the "trat." "Trat." "Trat," what means? "Trat" is the same
meaning as the "tarah."
"Tara" means what? For example, the word "tarah." "Tara." "Lady tarah."
"Liberator." That's "liberator." "Tara" is translated into the word, what's called the "dharma."
"Dharma." "Dharma" means "liberating." "Liberating."
So "dhantra" has the word, also "tarah." "Tara" is liberating. Then, as I said, it's woven or
continuation.
Continues. What means continuation?
"On the mind." What?
"A continuation of the mind."
That's it. That's it. Continuations of the nature of the mind.
It's the nature of the mind.
The duality of the mind is temporary. It's not going to continue.
But the absolute nature of the mind, the "tathagadagadam," the Buddha's nature, is continuation.
So why is that this "tathat" is named like that? Well, it is teaching is named like that.
That always in the teaching says, because that continuation will be reworked by these "tathat"
teachers.
That absolute continuation, unbroken system that wager a chain, wager the thread and woven,
that will be reworked by these "tathas."
That how this is going to be reworked, then this is the "sadhana." "Sadhana" is the essence of that
teaching that well.
Otherwise, "tathara" is so big. Of course, maybe it's a certain highly intelligent individual can
understand that.
But mostly, every different word, "tathara" is very big.
"Tathara" is very big and difficult to mean. No exhalities. It's like more kind of like physics
words.
Words of physics, we won't understand easily.
But this "sadhana" will help to bring that essence and bring to rework the continuation of the
radial natures.
So that, therefore, "sadhana" is very important.
In order to activate this "sadhana," this meaning, then this "choga" or "chagli."
"Chagli," that you don't know. "Chagli" is the word of all, is ritual.
Ritual is important, then ritual is important.
Because ritual is, what's called, in Gurbakama Sambha said, in the Mundu teaching, "sadhana" or Rom
elukana Sanabji said,
"if you combine the ritual with Vadiyana teaching, it brings the precious blessings."
"Blessings" or it brings the precious, the energetic things. It will bring that.
It brings uplifting our things. We're not just sinking, we're uplifting, we're outgoing, going.
And therefore, then this ritual is important.
All this ritual implementation, everything we do, it becomes something magnificent to call that
really encompasses entirely what it is.
What is there or what is here, that will be revealed. So therefore, "choga," "chagli" is important.
The chagli, "choga" is important.
And then, how to learn this ritual? There's two ways.
This is known as ritual. You learn with linear instructions, that what we're following.
But at the same time, being there, being part of the mandala, being there, part of the ceremony,
being part of the group.
Combination, you will learn. Not just intellectually, when you be in a group, you're activating, in
a way, your knowledge.
So it becomes real, not just as an imagination status, but really look at that.
That's what we learn. Therefore, this is what's called "suchoga," "chagli," "chagli," that's it.
So those are really the kind of overview of the mandala and sort of moral of the ritual.
And then, of course, you will learn from me. It will be reminded by our lamas to you, and you will
all become who you know already and do this.
This is really, as I said, it's really important to practice. When we're practicing at home, when
you're practicing with the Guru,
and we practice with confidence, we practice with confidence.
All that I don't know, I'm a part of the group, but there's something, many things that happen, I
don't understand.
We don't have to fill that kind of twilight zone. So we really see that really things.
We practice with confidence, diligently, joyful, we devote and build each other at home, in the
heaven, in the Guru,
and that's the living purpose of the learning, which will become part of the lineage system,
that long-lasting continuation from the "Buddha Shakyamuni" or the "Vedyadara" to "Murban Masambha"
to "Nah."
So that is the brilliant meaning of the ritual. Thank you.
Thank you. Now we do one minute meditation, and then we are here to pray.